Dear Justin,

I hope this finds you well, enjoying the early parts of the new year.

I finally found the time to re-read the dissertation draft and share some comments below and in the attachment.*   I also had a chance to correspond with Chris a bit, and we seem to have very similar impressions, though also some differences that Chris will detail separately.  The short and good news is that it is in pretty solid shape and that a defense is feasible this term.  But there is also room for revisions.  In the attachment, you'll see some mark-up of the introduction that was the most important part I had not read before.  Since we have spoken about the other chapters before, I read those more quickly and offer very few comments.

The introduction needs the most amount of attention.  Honestly, I find it to be on the thin side and to be aiming in the wrong direction.  It spends most of its ammunition on detailing academic debates that don't show up elsewhere in the dissertation.  They may be germane for general context, but should not come at the expense of you detailing the rationale for your study and the thinking behind the core puzzles.  You should lead with the latter, and only after reviewing prevailing alternative explanations to yours should you engage older academic debates.  This is particularly important if you want intro to be short.   An alternative, esp. if you want intro to be longer, would be to quickly identify your puzzles up front and say something general about contemporary scholarship, then provide a commentary on older scholarship, followed by a longer engagement with current scholarship.

The intro basically uses the chapter abstracts to describe the full chapters.  That is another missed opportunity to build your case.  Think of those sections as opportunities to persuade the scholars you cite in a few pages that there is something to your project.  Your claims are big and bold, and rather than hiding behind hedging language (see mark-up for what I have in mind), you should establish your case on academic grounds.  You do a very good job of that in the chapters, and should do the same in the intro.

The intro would also benefit from a longer discussion of research design and, in particular, methods.  Your chapters are mixed-method -- why not highlight the rationale for your choice and detail the benefits?

The current intro doesn't have a conclusion.  Consider using a concluding part in the intro to detail the structure of the diss as a whole and preview implications from the empirical cases.

The manuscript as a whole is also missing a concluding chapter.  I think you should include one.  As you know from several earlier conversations, I think you should conceive of the diss as a potential book manuscript.  A longer intro, including a review of extant lit on role of mass media, and a concluding chapter would be great bookends to a very provocative and elegant study.  A concluding chapter is by no means a must, though pretty standard.   If you even consider publishing the diss as a book only for a second or two, remember that you'll at least have four pairs of eyes at the defense who can offer your very targeted and constructive comments on how to turn the diss that is defended into a book that is published.  You will get a lot further a lot quicker since it will entail revising existing text rather than having a situation where suggestions are for things you haven't done yet.

Finally, I wonder about the organization of the chapters. Why do you have the order you do?  I feel like the third study should be the first.  Any particular reason why they are in the order they are?  Chapters 1 and 3 seem very similar. They should probably follow one-another.  Also, you'll need to edit each chapter to limit overlap in discussion and the like.  This is one of teh challenges with 3 article dissertations, but it is an important one to surmount.

The Grad School spells out how a diss must be formatted and the like.  Please be sure to consult those guidelines very closely and fully for the next version.

Next steps?  The revisions I have in mind should not take much more than a month, depending on how crowded your plate is with teaching and the like.  Should we set the first half of March as our goal for a fully revised draft?  Then we can aim for an April defense.  What is your schedule like?  Can you get away in April?  (At my end, my main constraint is that any defense would have to take place before May 10th; I'm due for a summer of work in Germany.)  There is plenty of time to sort out dates, but we should start conversations about preliminary dates.  Please share your sense of what your time after March looks like.

Congrats on getting this far!  I look forward to hearing your thoughts and to scheduling a defense later this spring.

All the best,

--Orfeo
